feat: Add sorting and filtering releases docs (#3861)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/releases/usage/sorting-filtering.mdx

---

> title: Sorting a Filtering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Sorting & Filtering
```

sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn how to sort and filter releases."
---

<Note>

This feature is available only if you're in the Early Adopter program. Features available to Early Adopters are still in-progress and may have bugs. We recognize the irony. If you’re interested in being an Early Adopter, you can turn your organization’s Early Adopter status on/off in General Settings. This will affect all users in your organization and can be turned back off just as easily.

</Note>

## Sorting Releases

> On Releases list, use "Sort By" dropdown in the top right to sort releases by:

Reviewer: Removing the location of the dropdown makes the content a bit more future-proof, in case we ever move that UI element. 

```suggestion
On the **Releases** page, you can use the "Sort By" dropdown to sort releases by:
```

- Date Created
- Total Sessions
- [Active Sessions/Users](/product/releases/health/#active-sessionsusers)
- [Crash Free Sessions/Users](/product/releases/health/#crash-free-sessionsusers)
- Build Number

> - Semantic Version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Semantic Version](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/releases/#bind-the-version)
```

> - [Semantic Version](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/releases/%23bind-the-version)

Reviewer 2: Unless we're expecting this to be absent, we can also use this form for the link:
< PlatformLink to="/configuration/releases/#bind-the-version">Semantic Versioning< /PlatformLink> 

I'm going to add a linking guide to our contributor guidelines as we have multiple methods to link, depending on the type of link we're intending to build.

Reviewer 2: Note I've added spaces before the opening "<" in both PlatformLinks because otherwise GH doesn't display them.

Reviewer 2: @matejminar - apologies, but my edit isn't correct here. I've been testing our multiple link types as I prepare the guidelines and the one you have created is the correct format for this use case.

## Filtering Releases

> Search on [Releases](/product/releases/) page supports both raw text and query syntax. If you are using our [Semantic Versioning](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/releases/#bind-the-version) format, following query tokens are known to Sentry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search on the **Releases** page supports both raw text and query syntax. If you are using our [semantic versioning](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/releases/#bind-the-version) format, the following query tokens are known to Sentry:
```

> Search on the **Releases** page supports both raw text and query syntax. If you are using our [semantic versioning](/platform-redirect/?next=/configuration/releases/%23bind-the-version) format, the following query tokens are known to Sentry:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Search on the **Releases** page, which supports both raw text and query syntax. If you are using our <PlatformLink to="/configuration/releases/#bind-the-version">Semantic Versioning</PlatformLink> format, you can use the following query tokens:
```

Reviewer 2: Please also ignore this suggestion. I believe, however, that the anchor here is malformed. It should use `#bind-the-version`

Author: `%23` is urlencoded `#`. Without encoding it, the linkchecker github action would fail and the `#` would not survive the platform redirect.

Reviewer 2: Ah, TIL. Thanks, Matej.

> - `release` - search based on string comparison
> - `release.package` - search releases with matching package names
> - `release.version` - search releases with matching semantic version. Supports ranges and wildcards (e.g. `release.version:>7.8` or `release.version:1.2.*`)
> - `release.build` - search releases with matching build numbers

Reviewer: We avoid latin abbreviations in the docs

```suggestion
- `release` - Search based on string comparison
- `release.package` - Search releases with matching package names
- `release.version` - Search releases with matching semantic version. Supports ranges and wildcards (for example, `release.version:>7.8` or `release.version:1.2.*`)
- `release.build` - Search releases with matching build numbers
```

> For more information on search queries, see [Search](/product/sentry-basics/search/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about search queries in our [full Search documentation](/product/sentry-basics/search/).
```
